it stands 16 metres high it's like a
Space Station an isolated capsule
floating on slowly moving ice nearly
3,000 meters above sea level
all supplies for the pole station has to
be brought in by air even in summer it's
so cold that the supply aircraft after
they've landed have to keep their
engines running to stop them from
freezing the fuel they bring is
transferred into vast bladders which
when full will last the station through
the winter the South Pole is the best
place on earth to observe the heavens
above the atmosphere is totally clear
and free from pollution and the stars
don't disappear below the horizon as
they do elsewhere so that they can be
observed continuously
working in Antarctica demands a special
kind of scientist you may have the most
brilliant mind but that may be of little
use
if you can't pitch a tent or we start a
diesel engine
most of the stations are built on the
edge of the continent like the
Australian base at Mawson they stand on
rock instead of ever moving ice
here there are other living creatures
with which to share your life 35 miles
from Mawson there are emperor penguins
which also like you will sit out the
winter
when the last supply ships have left the
wintering crews will see no other human
being for six whole months perhaps more
they must now find a way of living
together in a place where for some of
the time
there will be no mourning no evening and
no escape a routine is all-important and
as plenty to do not only scientific work
but all the jobs necessary to keep the
station running looking after the dogs
is a much sought after job it's
refreshing to see living things other
than human beings food becomes hugely
important and the cook is one of the
most critically watched members of the
community
most bases have at least a year's supply
of food in reserve in case of
emergencies
and most also have a building away from
these living quarters fully stocked with
food in case of the worst disaster or a
fire for no human beings without shelter
in conditions like this could survive
for more than a few hours
as winter advances and the day's shorten
the Sun skims closer to the horizon and
eventually drops below it now there will
be little or no sunlight whatever for 37
days
you